hello you're live with BBC News I'm Anna
Foster here in Jerusalem let's take a
look at the latest situation around Gaza
you were seeing there just a moment ago
images of a fresh airdrop of Aid which
has been happening over Gaza this
morning we know now that the the US
military along with the Jordanian Air
Force have been carrying out regular
airdrops of Aid with the parachutes and
the pallets uh heading down to the
people below who so desperately need
them but there is another option to take
aid in which is now starting to come
into play as well and that is the option
of taking Aid into Gaza by SE now the US
Army says one of its military support
ships has actually set off from the US
uh it's set off from the port of
Virginia and it's heading to Gaza to
build a temporary Pier there which would
enable ships to unload aid but that is
expected to take at least 2 months
before it's actually in place and there
is again separately this uh cypriate
ship well it's a Spanish ship in Cyprus
which is loaded and waiting for
clearance to actually head towards Gaza
here's the
latest there's little hope to be found
amid the rubble in Gaza another night of
Israeli strikes has taken its toll
images like this travel around the world
across the Atlantic Israel's main allies
seiz them
too the US President Joe Biden said he
still supported Israel's rights to
defend itself but he cautioned the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu about the extent of the
military operations he was sanctioning
he must he must he must pay more
attention to the innocent lives being
lost as the consequence of the actions
taken he's hurting I my view he's
hurting Israel more than helping Israel
by making the rest of the world it's
contrary to what Israel stands for and I
think it's a big
mistake just two weeks ago Mr Biden was
optimistic a ceasefire deal could be in
place by Ramadan but now with just hours
to go there's no sign of an imminent
breakthrough that means other options to
get Aid into Gaza at scale are still
being sought as the fighting
continues military air drops above the
strip deliver some food but not enough
but that still won't meet the growing
and desperate need this mother can't
find anything in Gaza to help her
child I feed my daughter with water just
so she doesn't die water is not
recommended and it's even forbidden for
a baby of her
age in Cyprus an aid ship is ready to
set sail loaded with supplies the
charity behind it say they're confident
they'll be able to unload them when they
arrive off gaza's beaches in the longer
term a US ship that will build a
temporary peer to do the job has set
sail but the Project's completion date
is still 2 months away
and while it's constructed the pressure
on Israel to get more help to suffering
civilians will continue
Ana well let's head straight to lanica
in Cyprus and speak to our correspondent
Quentin Somerville who is there at
Quentin do we have any idea when this
Aid ship might set
sail local media is reporting that it
will leave some point this afternoon
apparently they're waiting for final
security clearances uh from from Israel
which of course supervises pretty much
all of the aid that that makes its way
into Gaza um the there's about 150 to
200 tons of Aid on board and it has
everything from flour and rice to
pre-prepared meals and water um it's
quite a long journey it's 210 nautical
miles normally that Journey from here in
larica to Gaza would take about 15 hours
but because the pulling that big heavy
barge it might take longer and the the
organizations have involved have said a
number of times the most difficult part
of the journey will be the last mile you
just touched on that in your report
because Landing in Gaza will be very
difficult it doesn't have a functioning
uh port and of course in parts of Gaza
all law no or all Civil Society really
has broken down since Israel's
bombardment and ground Invasion so the
and the need from the people in Gaza is
absolutely desperate so there is always
that danger that when this ship appears
on the horizon and gets closer to Shore
that people will start making their way
towards it will enter the water we've
seen some pictures from World Central
Kitchen which is one of the Charities
involved which seems to show a temporary
Pier being built inside Gaza uh there's
heavy lifting equipment large Boulders
and rocks are being moved towards the
foreshore to to make way for the
preparation for when this ship finally
gets underway and starts that
Journey
and Quenton you were saying this is the
the first ship it's got an amount of Aid
on board but when we look at the air
drops the sea Corridor that's due to
open will that actually fill the the
void that's being left by far fewer
Trucks Than would normally pass into gar
are doing so since the War
Began not by a long shot there is a very
quick and effective way of getting Aid
into Gaza and that's by truck and that's
by Road two entry points in southern
Gaza one from Egypt and one from Israel
that system isn't functioning properly
you might even say it's not fit for
purpose uh certainly the British
government and other governments have
been pressurizing Israel for months now
to let more trucks in there it's just
over 100 trucks a day that are getting
in before the war Anna it was over 420
trucks a day the need Clearly Now is
much greater that would be the quickest
easiest mechanism but there's a lot of
resistance and very little movement from
Israel on that front so these very
complicated very intensive efforts are
going on instead Maritime corridors and
air drops and they are they're a
dropping the ocean in terms of gaza's
need because we we we keep hearing the
uh how dire the situation is in Gaza and
it gets worse every single day but it
should come as no surprise to anyone the
UN has been warning for months that that
strangulation of humanitarian Aid by
truck into Gaza would have catastrophic
consequences and we seem to see those
those consequences seem to be coming to
realization now